I buhdeuce yen I was just wondering cuz
I mean it seemed to me like it was there
some sage your lap or peter singer or
some other utilitarian thinker was
really important to you for coming vegan
or how you thought about Vito or no I
mean yeah I was just wondering if
there's some initial II yes i would say
initially that was very important to me
becoming vegan because I I can
appreciate a lot of what he has to say
not just about veganism but about a
multitude of other topics i'm actually
some of his I appreciate that he's one
of the values about being utilitarian is
you're not going to shrink away from
discussing a topic because you you kind
of had this black and white view of the
world that allows you to just explore
these issues is the fact that he's gone
into discussing some topics that people
wish you wouldn't talk about like
euthanasia and things like that I
appreciate that because I think that
takes a little bit of courage to discuss
those things and I'm I think it's
beneficial I know you don't I know you
can't stand him but Bobby look I mean my
fundamental part of you singers that to
me his stuff is boring and meaningless
but that reflects what what I already am
familiar with it take for granted like
you know from age to I mean like he's
coming he still has a view that I think
it's very much set from the 1970s he
hasn't really um he hasn't seen the way
that we can move forward past that
really well I was gonna say like you
know somebody somebody else might get
really inspired by a kind of
introductory book about Buddhist
philosophy or let's say a collection of
Buddhist philosophical poems the really
ancient poems translated in english and
they might say wow and to me it would
just be nothing because i have already
this really deep the background to me
you might be boring or meaningless like
yeah yeah i've read the Dhammapada
already at the this collection of
excerpts doesn't you know doesn't
hopefully that's amazing thing to me so
you know I just say that doesn't really
mean that the source material is
meaningless but it just might not
provide anything new or important or a
shocking contrast to what I already knew
to the background I already had and like
I've been trying to get involved more
with real-world activism trying to meet
other vegans and things like that and i
got to say here that this is a kind of a
potluck thing and i don't know what you
think about that but that seems to be
universally the way that he didn't seem
to me I don't want to go to a potluck I
know that sounds awful but I just I
don't worry cooking I don't like I'm
it's just not my thing
no why we can't just meet at a coffee
shop or something but I guess that makes
me weird but I would rather sit and chat
with people than then you know right
well that's that's also why I wanted to
be on the explicitly political side of
things right when it's clear that you
want to organize real political action
than whatever time you spend talking to
people recipes and you know sing Kumbaya
I know that sounds awful but that's the
only well well look at your talking to
now I mean I feel exactly the same way
but anyway I guess we'll wrap up this
conversation is because we've gone on
for so long but what wonderful talking
to you as you can imagine in terms of
real world activism my options will be
totally different if I now commit to
living on the Burmese border for one
year or if I returned to Canada right
away just a short time ago I was
thinking about whether or not I was
moving to Japan or moving to Europe or
join the Canadian Army so yeah yeah yeah
I already just wish they already do have
one BA I have a BA in political science
so this esha second be a which is in
Asian Studies so then the question is
what if you complete the second ba do
you now won an MA how many years your
life do you want to spend in a
university and for me it would be for me
it would be quite easy to get in it yeah
that's the question for you is like the
benefit of that I mean you can certainly
work get a masters degree and then
worked for a government body doing
something but I don't think I ever could
I don't think the government would ever
hire me I don't think I'd ever get that
job I'm just being honest I don't think
I could ever work for the Canadian
government I don't think they give me a
job above camp counselor I just don't
think I'd ever get a job yeah well you
can wait Oh God will uncover so you can
look at my CV and we could talk about it
but I was just thinking more like that I
don't know that like certainly I can see
you doing you know you could do
something in education obviously but
again that does take time I doesn't it's
not it's not easy to get you know I've
thought about it myself because I've got
a master's degree right so I'm the
perfect example of someone who what do
you do when you do have a master's
degree like I can certainly do a PhD and
then you know I be able to do academia
fairly easily but well the the other the
other shoe before me to become a lawyer
but becoming a lawyer in Canada takes a
really deep commitment to a particular
place because its provincial and you
know ultimately to a city so that's
years of my life with again no income
and in Canada you get the degree and
then you go into a very corrupt
articling process and where would that
be for me Halifax yeah you know so yeah
very different you do come back to
Canada you can perfectly easily i
honestly think eyes like if you're able
to to work with people i think that you
could easily create your own you know
vegan organization i can see you doing
that and whether it's a lobbying group
or something like that it I think he
could do that look I hope your cough
it's me but you are the tiny you're the
tiny minority of people who don't hate
my gosh yeah I'm not oh really humble
about it but again when I was actually
in Victoria and I was even reaching out
to Vancouver where there was a bigger
scene none of those people would talk to
me and none of them work with me and
again doing anything because that may be
part of the problem too like there's
plenty of people who are just not right
well but then like am I more interested
in doing politics or am i interested in
doing vegan politics like now that I'm
Canadian citizen and everything I've
been thinking like do I want to get
involved in politics I know you I'm
always interested later on like some
other day because it's late for you but
sometime we should I'm curious about
your experience with the green party and
everything I'd probably not right go
with supreme party because it's just not
here in Alberta completely personalized
but right well I mean you know um yes a
lot I could say about this and it's
already midnight here in China um okay
sure sure sure sure sure sure but I mean
to me I think if just looking at youtube
to bring back to YouTube you do get to
see all the different categories and why
all those categories excuse exclude me
so the yoga people exclude me the raw
food people excluded me the people who
just care about health exclude me the
people who just care about pets exclude
me the people who are really dog
centered for whom they're vegan because
there were people and like I've I've
never been friends with any of them I've
known some of them over the Internet
there are people who spend their time
rescuing abused dogs and all their time
and energy just goes into house pets
well you know it's and to me it's like a
totally different version of veganism
right
when we were talking about Peter Singer
earlier that was one of the things that
resonated with me the most about him was
his whole thing that he just he was not
an animal person he didn't like pets he
was not in love with animals but he
could see the moral wrongness of what we
were doing and he had this wonderful
story and Animal Liberation about
sitting with this woman who was an
animal rights activist who's serving ham
sandwiches at a lunch and she's talking
about how much you know the saving the
little animals and how people are so
mean to their pets and how it just kind
of in she asked him like do you have any
animals and she was like horrified that
he didn't have pets and here she is
sitting and eating a ham sandwich like
it's just the cognitive dissonance
pennant yeah so you know but I mean she
I do think that YouTube is useful as you
get to see all those calories get to see
how they exclude me and the very small
number of people who were explicitly
into political organization they also as
it happens excluded me we had a party I
could send you a link we had a party
with his really long name and it was
something like the animal rights voters
but it was even longer than it was like
voters for animal rights and blah blah
blah blah blah and I remember the
newspapers referred to them as the vegan
party because that's such a catchy name
by comparison they'd always say we're
not the vegan party were not vegan or
for an amorous so they were then on they
were the non-vegan animal rights party
and none of those people are talking
working so so yeah common with many
vegans either because I am more
interested in the political stuff i'm
not interested in just vegan food like
because it seems like everybody every
woman certainly is interested in diet
food and neither one of those really
interest me you know like it's just not
well look ok so again i'm especially we
said earlier you know i said before
people who are wanting to climb up to
getting two thousand viewers per video
which is now kind of like my minimum
once in a while I video gets five
thousand or whatever but you know my
anti-racism video broke 15,000 but 2,000
is my real audience and then you look at
my situation and see how awful it is
think about you really want this same
thing I can say when you actually start
spending times or if you do but for
anyone who hears this when you start
spending time at City Hall or at
provincial Parliament pay attention to
the the lonesome activists who have
dedicated years of their lives and have
only gotten a very modest reward so I
can remember some figures i'm thinking
of one in particular minute a couple
people
this who put in years and years on a
particular issue and very often they
were men who were lawyers anyway who had
some respectable career of that kind
that gives them an income because in the
certain level of political education and
they would take the time to just come
into city hall and give depositions on
labor rights or you know it could be
ecology I don't remember them ever being
ecology but some oh yeah one of them was
uh cracks in the education system you
know like actual like in that sense
flaws in education their words I look
there are some students who because they
transfer from Quebec they put back a
year because this either actual errors
in the education system and nobody pays
him and he has no fame and he's there
alone putting the hours and you know the
sad thing is in some ways when if you
meet people like that and you watch them
operate you see what they do at City
hello provincial Parliament you have to
realize that's not the worst case
scenario like me having two thousand
viewers you'd have to work really hard
to reach that plateau and then once you
reach it you know maybe your life is
miserable I mean how unhappy would you
be if you were putting on your suit and
tie and going to City Hall alone to give
that deposition whether it's on veganism
or ecology or labor rights or the
education system in a country like
Canada with very weak cultures that
there are not a lot of people like that
I think many parts the United States
actually a more of a civic pride culture
where people do those sorts of things
and maybe the rewards are greater also
but you know you you have to be really
honest with yourself as we say in rap
music you gotta get in where you fit in
which is actually really sad statement
light live or visit for if you don't if
you're in BC and you do any ecological
problem other than save the whales it
might be a really lonely road you've got
to think about you're gonna feel when
you're all alone yeah yeah well I'm
really I'm fortunate in that I do have
more of the leisure to be able to do
that and have the time at least to do it
so for me it's just about you know
handling the the negative side of it but
but it's you know it's something that i
think i can do if i if I'm interested in
it so um yeah well
right and you don't know I mean for me
if I actually come back from China
speaking Chinese I may be able to plug
into and galvanized and motivate a
totally different public that's
inaccessible to other vegans even with
in Vancouver with in Victoria Chinese
speaking Chinese speaking people were
interested in ecology you just leave it
at that whether or not they're vegan and
then maybe I can coerce them to become
vegan maybe we're maybe vegans aren't
always the best people for us to be
reaching out to I like I don't know it's
it's it's going to be the most amenable
to the to these to these kind of ideas
like whether it will be vegans or not
because I realize that a lot of the kind
of anti-science happy food skinny Vinnie
images are probably not that interested
in it right but that that's why i say i
really think it's it's valuable to
define it in terms of an ecological
niche if you work on river conservation
then you deal with river people and they
have their own foundations and back
whenever those if you work with have
their conservation for forests they were
forced people and some of those people
are like native Canadians who hunt moose
but as I've actually met and spent time
with native Canadians ohon moves and
they often have a lot of respect for
vegans and they often have an intense
hatred for factory farming and so on you
know I remember talking to one guy who
was you know deep into the First Nations
politics and so on and he said you know
it's it's not controversial at all to
say cigarettes are the white man's
poison but it's deeply offensive to say
tobacco is the white man's it's a great
example you know so you know it's true
as they say politics make strange
bedfellows but if you meet other people
are passionate about that river or that
forest or it could be the ocean you know
in Victoria we have this issue with
sewage being dumped into the ocean
directly untreated sewage monster
there's blah blah blah but um but it all
it all has to come from love yeah it's
just you know about vegan education and
that's the only thing we should be
working on because like you said I think
there's these small issues that are not
right welfare issues that are like we
were talking about lobbying for schools
to stop having you know egg and cheese
pushers come in like that kind of thing
is beneficial I think and it's not about
wealth or those are small things but I
think we can make a difference in that
are that are useful okay so one thing
kazoo I met a woman here who is not
vegan I actually wanted to have her on
cam
I wanted to do a conversation but she
had been involved with vegan activism in
England and she was part of a movement
that tried to get vegans and a couple of
other marginalized groups the same
status as religious organizations within
the university so I think I meshes you
an email maybe so that they would have
the right to have vegan food within the
University of the University cafeterias
so and I think the fundamental she
didn't say this I think the judges
position was look the university's
making all these efforts so that Muslims
can have cows slaughtered with a
different method of slaughter that's
what it helped out too and yet vegans
are having such a hard time so there for
vegans we're in a struggle to get the
same status yeah talk about that more
some other time too because there's
something my husband's been asking about
because he's like where I wouldn't
vegans just do that because then you'll
get way more you know you can start row
you can have open your own church of
veganism and you're gonna get nonprofit
status and so this other ship almost
instantly like it's so much easier sure
but look great yes so that's why it
doesn't really work to make veganism
kind of a religion right so what almost
maybe it's maybe it's easier because
we're atheists but I was gonna say
though all that though you know in terms
of the love and respect and cooperation
um I used to do ecological activism with
a guy who had various um character flaws
in Toronto and you know some of his
character flaws were related to his drug
use he smoked marijuana later he used
ayahuasca when he's horrible South
American drugs we know that but you know
he's like the only guy doing a collage
galactus my can work with and making a
pause the difference and we did we did
real things we did real activism despite
notwithstanding his character flaws um
the amount of love and respect I can
have for you the amount I can tolerate
your your your flaws both you
specifically and you have my listeners
sure it absolutely relates to things
like like veganism so you mod I'll refer
to you by your screen name oh right okay
all right all right but you if I found
out you had a gambling problem um you
know I'd be aware of that and be like
okay well you know we have to be
supportive and understanding once in a
while she disappears for a weekend you
know to go to Las Vegas or something
you know maybe she's not the person to
give the right to use the checkbook and
sign or draw money for the bank for our
charity we have to be aware of this but
we can still work with her we can still
work around this um you know as opposed
to Margaret wears leather shoes beep
that's autocheck right yeah but I mean
you know to me I mean you know in terms
of the the type of love and cooperation
and tolerance and real-world stuff to
deal with with people whether it's you
know you have a conference you know so
people have spent time and money getting
on an airplane because Canada is such a
huge country if we have a conference in
in the prairies you know doesn't matter
where if you look conference in
Saskatoon so everyone had to spend a
thousand dollars go to this conference
and then I sit down and there's one
person at the conference eating
McDonald's or something you know yeah
yeah so you know that that that's all I
say is you can't kill yourself but
that's you maybe it's shallow or what
have you but in terms of the people
you're really committing your time and
money to working with because they will
have character flaws whether it's
gambling or something else we can say
okay I you know I really at this stage
in my life I want to be spending time
with people who share that fundamental
ethical commitment where they're not
willing to eat at McDonald's they're not
willing to buy leather shoes or whatever
it is so don't you know don't go too far
with the reckless humility you know
could say it's true i mean its humble to
say i'm willing to work with you even
though you eat at McDonald's or
something is that is true humility for a
vegan but i don't i don't think i have
to be that humble for me you know at
this i don't if you're a high school kid
may you know when you're only doing
activism of other people your high
school probably you do need to be the
humble probably need to work with anyone
who has any common interest you but yeah
everything right and rest LLC okay
anyway so a wonderful and as you know i
mean i gave you a compliment earlier by
email which is that other youtubers keep
recommending your channel to me and
saying that you're our hope for the
future and it's it's very flattering
it's good that they say that but the bad
thing is it's like well yep we're all
excited about my vegans channel but it
sure would be better if they
or 10 or 20 different channels we were
all excited about and she was just one
of them where there were so many that
you were being lost in the crowd but
you're not you stand out and a lot of us
have high hopes for future great and
China and if you decide to do something
here in Canada I definitely simply added
you good speak to you soon ah baa loo CL